the Rafa border crossing was the main
Lifeline for Aid to Gaza and its people
now there are serious concerns about a
worsening humanitarian catastrophe the
head of the World Health Organization
says hospitals in southern Gaza will run
out of fuel to run generators on Friday
and the deputy director of the UN Agency
for Palestinian refugees says Fuel and
food rations will be depleted by Friday
as well Sam Rose is the director of
planning for onra he's described the
humanitarian situation inside the strip
no Aid has come into Gaza now since
Sunday no Aid no fuel no supplies
nothing and we really are now down to
our last reserves we have a few more
days of flour that we can we can provide
but but everything else will start to
shut down very very soon without fuel
without water there's nothing that we
can do with any of these supplies so the
situation is really really desperate as
we wake up this morning the situation on
on on this scale is is was difficult to
plan for anyway it becomes absolutely
impossible if we're not able to get the
fuel in if we're not able to get theing
open those those are the lifelines so
without that there's very little that we
can do we can redeploy slightly to move
some resources to where people are
moving to but we have to do that very
carefully to to to to avoid raising
Panic amongst an already exhausted
traumatized population the people are
are petrified people have been fearing
this for a long long time and it's now
upon us there is there is constant
bombardment there is smoke on the
horizon there are people on the Move we
estimated as of last night about 110,000
people uh from Rafa had had been
displaced and had moved on some of those
to other parts of Rafa but many of them
elsewhere I'm here in the unra
headquarters which is the hub for the
entire a operation in Gaza we were
surrounded by an IDP camp but I look out
of my window this morning and and it's
half empty I see murals on walls of
Disney characters that I've not been
able to see for months people are doing
whatever they can to flee for safety and
yet where are they going to there are no
safe places